The following is a list of all standards from the Joint Commission International Accreditation Standards for 
Ambulatory Care, 4th Edition applicable to ambulatory surgery. They are presented here for your convenience 
without their intent statements or measurable elements. For more information about these standards, please see 
the Standards, Intents, and Measurable Elements section of the applicable chapter in this document.
Certain standards listed in this table may have an intent statement that is combined for multiple standards, for 
example, FMS.8.2 and FMS.8.2.1 share a combined intent statement. In this example, FMS.8.2 is applicable 
to ambulatory surgery while FMS.8.2.1 is not. When listed in the document, the standard wording and 
measurable elements for FMS.8.2.1 will not be available, but the intent will still state that it’s applicable to 
FMS.8.2 and FMS.8.2.1. Only the standards listed in this table are applicable to ambulatory surgery centers 
using this document.
Note: This document does not include the Accreditation Participation Requirements (APRs) that all JCI-accredited 
ambulatory care organizations must meet. The APRs can be found in the Joint Commission International 
Accreditation Standards for Ambulatory Care, 4th Edition.
Standard Standard Wording
International Patient Safety Goals (IPSG)
IPSG.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to improve 
accuracy of patient identifications. ℗
IPSG.2 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to improve 
the effectiveness of verbal and/or telephone communication among caregivers. ℗
IPSG.2.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process for reporting critical results of diagnostic tests. ℗
IPSG.2.2 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process for handover communication. ℗
IPSG.3 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to improve 
the safety of high-alert medications. ℗
IPSG.3.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to manage 
the safe use of concentrated electrolytes. ℗ 
IPSG.4 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process for the preoperative verification and surgical/invasive procedure site marking. ℗
IPSG.4.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process for the 
time-out that is performed immediately prior to the start of the surgical/invasive 
procedure and the sign-out that is conducted after the procedure. ℗
IPSG.5 The ambulatory care organization adopts and implements evidence-based 
hand-hygiene guidelines to reduce the risk of health care–associated infections. ℗
Joint Commission International Accreditation Standards for Ambulatory Care, 4th Edition
2
Standard Standard Wording
IPSG.6.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to reduce the 
risk of patient harm resulting from falls for the organization’s patient population. ℗
Access to Care and Continuity of Care (ACC)
ACC.1 The ambulatory care organization informs the community about its services and 
how to obtain care and screens patients to identify whether their health care needs 
match the ambulatory care organization’s mission and resources. ℗
ACC.1.1 Patient flow in the ambulatory care organization is designed to provide efficient 
care and uniform access based on the needs of the patient. ℗
ACC.2 The ambulatory care organization designs and carries out processes to provide 
continuity of patient care services in the ambulatory care organization and coordination among health care practitioners. ℗
ACC.3 There is a qualified individual identified as responsible for the patient’s care. ℗
ACC.4 The ambulatory care organization has a program to provide ongoing care and 
support to patients who have chronic diseases. ℗
ACC.4.1 The medical records of patients seen over time who require complex care or have
complex diagnoses contain profiles of the medical care and are made available to 
the health care practitioners providing care to those patients. ℗
ACC.5 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to refer 
patients to other health care practitioners, another level of care, other health care 
settings, or other organizations to meet their continuing care needs. ℗
ACC.5.1 The ambulatory care organization develops and implements a process to transfer 
patients to another organization to meet their continuing care needs. ℗
ACC.5.2 Information about the care and services that the patient will need when he or she 
is referred by the ambulatory care organization is communicated to the patient, 
family, and continuing care practitioner and/or setting.
ACC.6 Patient education and follow-up instructions are given in a form and language the 
patient can understand.
ACC.7.1 The ambulatory care organization’s transportation services comply with relevant 
laws and regulations and meet requirements for quality and safe transport. ℗
Patient and Family Rights (PFR)
PFR.1 The ambulatory care organization is responsible for developing and implementing 
processes that support patients’ and families’ rights during care. ℗
PFR.1.1 The ambulatory care organization seeks to reduce physical, language, cultural, 
and other barriers to access and delivery of services.
PFR.1.2 The ambulatory care organization provides care that is respectful of the patient’s
dignity, personal values, and beliefs; and the patient’s rights to privacy and
confidentiality of care and information are respected and protected. ℗
PFR.1.3 Patients are protected from verbal abuse and physical assault, and vulnerable 
populations are identified and protected from additional risks
PFR.2 The ambulatory care organization provides care that is respectful of patients’ and 
families’ personal values and beliefs and supports their rights to participate in the 
care process. ℗
3
Applicable Standards for Surgery (Including Plastic Surgery) Centers
Standard Standard Wording
PFR.3 All patients are informed about their rights and responsibilities in a manner and 
language they can understand.
PFR.4 Patient informed consent is obtained through a process defined by the ambulatory 
care organization and carried out by trained staff in a manner and language that 
the patient can understand. ℗
PFR.4.1 Informed consent is obtained before surgery, anesthesia, procedural sedation, use 
of blood and blood products, and other high-risk treatments and procedures. ℗
PFR.4.2 Patients and families receive adequate information about the illness, proposed
treatment(s), and health care practitioners so that they can make care decisions.
PFR.4.3 The ambulatory care organization establishes a process, within the context of 
existing law and culture, for when others can grant consent. ℗
Assessment of Patients (AOP)
AOP.1 An initial assessment process is used to identify the health care needs of all 
patients
AOP.1.1 The scope and content of initial assessments conducted by different clinical disciplines is defined in writing and based on applicable laws and regulations. ℗
AOP.2 All patients are screened for pain and assessed when pain is present.
AOP.3 The ambulatory care organization has a process for obtaining findings from relevant outside assessments and incorporating them into the organization’s patient 
assessment process.
AOP.4 There is an established reassessment process for patients requiring additional 
services or ongoing care. ℗
AOP.5 The time frame for initial assessments and, as appropriate, reassessment is consistent with each patient’s needs, organizational policy, and accepted professional 
guidelines.
AOP.6 Laboratory services are available to meet patient needs, and all such services 
meet applicable local and national standards, laws, and regulations.
AOP.6.1.1 A qualified individual is responsible for the oversight and supervision of
point-of-care testing in the ambulatory care organization, and testing is
performed by trained and competent staff. ℗
AOP.6.2 A laboratory safety program is in place, followed, and documented, and compliance with the facility management and infection prevention and control programs 
is maintained. ℗
AOP.6.2.1 The laboratory uses a coordinated process to reduce the risks of infection as a 
result of exposure to infectious diseases and biohazardous materials and waste. ℗
AOP.6.3 Laboratory services provided in the organization meet patient and staff needs, are
organized with adequate supplies, and provide proper specimen management. ℗
AOP.6.4 All equipment used for laboratory testing is regularly inspected, maintained, and
calibrated, and appropriate records are maintained for these activities. ℗
AOP.6.5 Quality control procedures for laboratory services are in place, followed, and
documented. ℗
AOP.6.5.1 There is a process for proficiency testing of laboratory services. ℗
AOP.7 Radiology and diagnostic imaging services are available to meet patient needs, 
and all such services meet applicable local and national standards, laws, and 
regulations.
Joint Commission International Accreditation Standards for Ambulatory Care, 4th Edition
4
Standard Standard Wording
AOP.7.1 A qualified individual(s) is responsible for managing the radiology and diagnostic
imaging services. ℗
AOP.7.2 Individuals with proper qualifications and experience perform diagnostic imaging
studies, interpret the results, and report the results.
AOP.7.3 A radiation and/or diagnostic imaging safety program for patients, staff, and visitors is in place, followed, and complies with applicable professional standards, 
laws, and regulations. ℗
AOP.7.4 Radiology and diagnostic imaging study results are available in a timely way as 
defined by the ambulatory care organization. ℗
AOP.7.5 All equipment used to conduct radiology and diagnostic imaging studies is regularly inspected, maintained, and calibrated, and appropriate records are maintained for these activities. ℗
AOP.7.6 Quality control procedures for the radiology and diagnostic imaging services are in
place, followed, validated, and documented. ℗
Care of Patients (COP)
COP.1 The ambulatory care organization provides care and treatment using uniform care 
processes to all patients that follow applicable laws and regulations. ℗
COP.2 An individualized plan of care is developed, revised when indicated by a change in 
the patient’s condition, and documented for each patient.
COP.2.1 Clinical practice guidelines and related clinical pathways and/or clinical protocols 
as well as other evidence-based recommendations are used to guide patient 
assessment and treatment and reduce unwanted variation. ℗
COP.3 The care of high-risk patients and the provision of high-risk services are guided by 
professional practice guidelines, laws, and regulations. ℗
COP.3.1 Clinical guidelines and procedures are established and implemented for the handling, use, and administration of blood and blood products. ℗
COP.4 The ambulatory care organization establishes and implements a program for the 
safe use of lasers and other optical radiation devices that are used for performing 
procedures and treatments in the organization. ℗
COP.4.1 Adverse events and adverse health effects resulting from the use of lasers and 
other optical radiation devices are reported and action plans to prevent recurrence 
are implemented and monitored.
COP.5 Resuscitation services are available throughout the ambulatory care organization.
COP.6 When patients remain in the ambulatory care organization for extended periods, 
food is available that is appropriate for the patient’s nutritional status and consistent with his or her clinical care.
COP.6.1 Patients at nutritional risk receive nutrition therapy.
COP.7 Patients are supported in managing pain effectively. ℗
Anesthesia and Surgery Care (ASC)
ASC.1 Sedation and anesthesia services, if provided by the ambulatory care organization, meet professional standards and applicable local and national standards, 
laws, and regulations.
5
Applicable Standards for Surgery (Including Plastic Surgery) Centers
Standard Standard Wording
ASC.2 A qualified individual(s) is responsible for managing the sedation and anesthesia 
services.
ASC.3 The administration of procedural sedation is standardized throughout the ambulatory care organization. ℗
ASC.3.1 Practitioners responsible for procedural sedation and individuals responsible for
monitoring patients receiving sedation are qualified. ℗
ASC.3.2 Procedural sedation is administered and monitored according to professional practice guidelines. ℗
ASC.3.3 The risks, benefits, and alternatives related to procedural sedation are discussed 
with the patient, his or her family, or those who make decisions for the patient.
ASC.4 A qualified individual conducts a preanesthesia assessment and preinduction 
assessment.
ASC.5 Each patient’s anesthesia care is planned and documented, and the anesthesia 
and technique used are documented in the patient’s medical record.
ASC.5.1 The risks, benefits, and alternatives related to anesthesia are discussed with the 
patient, his or her family, or those who make decisions for the patient.
ASC.6 Each patient’s physiological status during anesthesia and surgery is monitored 
according to professional practice guidelines and documented in the patient’s 
medical record. ℗
ASC.6.1 Each patient’s postanesthesia status is monitored and documented, and the 
patient is discharged from the recovery area by a qualified individual or by using 
established criteria. ℗
ASC.7 Each patient’s surgical care is planned and documented based on the results of 
the assessment
ASC.7.1 The risks, benefits, and alternatives are discussed with the patient and his or her 
family or those who make decisions for the patient.
ASC.7.2 Information about the surgical procedure is documented in the patient’s medical 
record to facilitate continuing care.
ASC.7.3 Patient care after surgery is planned and documented.
ASC.7.4 Surgical care that includes the implanting of a medical device is planned with special consideration of how standard processes and procedures must be modified. ℗